define an API promotion process (#6226)
crossplane/crossplane: contributing/guide-api-promotion.md

# Promoting an API

This guide describes the process for promoting an API in Crossplane from one
version to the next. This process should be handled with care over multiple
releases, as it has proven fairly easy for Crossplane's API promotions of the
past to be problematic for both upgrades and downgrades, as demonstrated by
[#6148], [#5932], and [#4400].

An explanation of Crossplane's feature lifecycle can be found in the [Feature
Lifecycle] docs page.

## Core Issue

The root cause we have encountered in past problematic API promotions is that we
try to drop a particular version from a CRD while there may still be resources
of that version stored in etcd. Kubernetes does not allow this action because it

> can result in possible data loss.

Reviewer: It allows it. But it's protected by `status.storedVersions`. It needs somebody to remove a version from that slice AFTER cleaning up etcd from old instances.

Note that this can happen on both upgrades as well as downgrades. Let's briefly
summarize one common downgrade path where we've encountered this issue:

1. A Crossplane API is promoted to Beta and the storage version for the CRD is
   updated to Beta in the same release
1. User installs this new Crossplane version and creates a Beta resource that is
   stored in etcd as Beta
1. User downgrades to the previous Crossplane version where the CRD's Beta
   version did not exist
1. The Crossplane init container tries to update the CRD back to the Alpha
   version, which drops the Beta version

> 1. The Kubernetes API server rejects this action because there are still Beta
>    resources stored in etcd according to the CRD's [`status.storedVersions`]
>    field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Kubernetes API server rejects this action because there might be still Beta
   resources stored in etcd according to the CRD's [`status.storedVersions`]
   field
```

Reviewer: "it doesn't know better"
